# The People’s Bank

Banking has been going on for centuries but it has always been centralized.  When the 2008 crisis occurred due to the greed of the bankers they were easily bailed out by the Federal Reserve and were just slapped on the wrist.  The Federal Reserve, the US central bank, was able to print money and bail out the banks.  The constant printing was the genesis of Bitcoin, the first cryptocurrency.  Cryptocurrency uses encryption to regulate the generation of the currency while verifying the transfer of funds independently of a bank, making it decentralized (1).  Following Bitcoin, there were multiple digital currencies that were introduced.  In 2017, due to the increase in price of the Bitcoin from 8 cents to $5000 to $10,000 to eventually $20,000, the space grabbed people’s attention.  As the price continued to rise, more people started to buy the asset.   After the hype and exuberance, Bitcoin and other digital assets have been in a bear market.  Many hold the asset as a hedge against the US dollar and the stock market.  Some use it as a their personal bank account to hold value of money.  For some it may feel like their money has been sitting there without any benefit while they wait for the expected rise of price.  Even though the cryptocurrency market has been going through the bear market, development and interest has been growing more and more.  Many institutions, like Grayscale, are getting involved and buying up the assets, while other institutions might be wary and may prefer to lend it out to their users without buying the risky asset.  Enter securities lending for cryptocurrency.

Securities lending is when an institution lends out a stock, derivative or other security to an investor or firm.   The borrower puts up collateral, when the security is loaned.  Celsius is first to bring this to the crypto space and was co-founded by Alex Mashinsky who got into the cryptocurrency space since 2010.  He made his fame as the genius behind voice over Internet protocol or VOIP and now his goal is to create MOIP or money over Internet protocol with Celsius.  

 Ninety percent of the Celsius business involves lending cryptocurrency to institutions, in which the institutions pay interest on this cryptocurrency loan.   Celsius keeps 20% and gives back 80% to retail depositors of cryptocurrencies.  The interest can be paid in the coin put up by the retail depositor or with the Celsius coin.  The advantage of getting interest in Celsius coin is that the interest rate that is paid is higher.  Ten percent of their business involves allowing the retail depositors to get a loan against their cryptocurrency at a much lower rate, which can be as low as 1%.  The interest earned on some of these coins can be as high as 11.90%.   Celsius buys the currency at market value to pay the interest.  .  Celsius has more in deposit than what is lent out unlike the banks, which use fractional reserves and lend out more than what they have on reserve and therefore Celsius can be considered a safer bet.  Celsius has over 115k users and 1.2 billion dollars in deposit.   Providing service for users to collect interest on their cryptocurrency is current trend in the crypto space.  A concern that comes to mind is giving up ones keys to a centralized entity, but Celsius uses secure multiparty computation technology which protects participants privacy.

There are other competitors on the market, like blockfi and crypto.com but their interest for loaning used to be a lot higher for users and the interest pay out was lower. Celsius also has more coins that they accept to be deposited compared to the other competitors.  Mr. Mashinksy is also the biggest depositor and owns the most amount of Celsius tokens and it would be in his best interest to make sure the company does well.  Another important note is that before lending, Celsius does its due diligence when lending and loans to institutions with billion dollar balance sheets.  Currently, Celsius is funded by qualified investors.  If Celsius ends up being sold to a larger company the equity holders can benefit for a bigger payout.
	
Overall, the Celsius project will change the future of banking and benefit its users.  The current banking system makes use of their clients and feeds the greed of the bankers.  Alex Mashinsky is the right person to do this, just like he made VoIP a possibility, MoIP will be the thing of the future in the fintech world.[^elaborate]


## References
1) Google definition cryptocurrency 
https://www.google.com/search?sxsrf=ALeKk03MM70th4PwPPAL1lZhnIu-AhLkiw%3A1596339818458&ei=ajYmX-e_G9O3tQbT8YbICA&q=cryptocurrency+definition&oq=cryptocurrency+defini&gs_lcp=CgZwc3ktYWIQAxgAMgQIIxAnMgIIADICCAAyAggAMgIIADICCAAyAggAMgIIADIGCAAQFhAeMgYIABAWEB46BAgAEEc6CggAELEDEIMBEEM6BwgAELEDEEM6BQgAELEDUL4MWMYTYM4aaABwAXgAgAFJiAHcA5IBATeYAQCgAQGqAQdnd3Mtd2l6wAEB&sclient=psy-ab
2) Investopedia.com https://www.investopedia.com/terms/s/securitieslending.asp
3) Celsius Network Live on BF with Alex Mashinsky & Simon Dixon | BnkToTheFuture 
(BF)Live Ep. 62 https://www.youtube.com/watch?list=PLrou7z4TGqLNSYTzhmVn8ciV7gokIzByz&time_continue=1&v=eV1IC5QMIrw&feature=emb_title

***

## Feedback
* Many of the questions in the template were not addressed. You want to present information about the company as well as an analysis backed by research. You will need more refined references. Try websites with financial articles like Forbes or Medium.
* Use markdown formatting to make the case study easier to read. Try adding level 2 or 3 headings for subsections and bulleted lists.

[^elaborate]: Elaborate more here. How will it change the future of banking? Why will it benefit users? Why is Alex Mashinsky the right person? 